On the latest Masters in Business
podcast, my conversation with Songyi
Yoon. She is founder and managing
partner at Principal Ventures, an
AI-focused venture capital investment
firm. Uh she has an a fascinating,
fascinating background. All sorts of MIT
Corporation advisory board, uh 50 women
to watch in business on the from the
Wall Street Journal, uh named to the
advisory board for the Center for Asia
Pacific Policy, as well as the National
Academy of Engineering of of Korea. She
has a fascinating background in gaming,
telecom, and AI. I found this
conversation to be fascinating, and I
think you will also. With no further
ado, my discussion with Principal
Ventures, Songyi Yoon.
Songyi Yoon, welcome to Bloomberg. Thank
you. Thank you so much for having me
today.
>> That is quite a CV I went through. Let's
Let's roll back though to where it all
began. You get a a Bachelor's in Science
from Korea's Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology, and then a PhD
in Computational Neuroscience from MIT.
That's such a fascinating area.
What was the original career plan?
That's a very good question.
Um
I mean, I think growing up in South
Korea, I didn't know what are the career
options that I had. I just really
enjoyed uh learning science and and
engineering subject. So,
when I was young, I realized for some
people
like
singing is very natural. Uh-huh. Some
people dancing is natural. I cannot
sing. I cannot dance. But, like speaking
to computers and programming was very
natural to me. So, I started programming
when I was nine. And that led me to
major in um electrical engineering as an
undergrad uh
at KAIST.
And uh along the way I realized I just
wanted to become a better engineer cuz I
was study as an engineering student. To
uh be a better engineer, you need to
understand how human brain works. So,
for example, I was studying signal
processing algorithm and those signal
processing algorithms are uh look best
to I to your eyes when it's not
necessarily mathematically the best, but
take into consideration what frequency
is most uh sensitive to human eyes. So,
understanding human uh brain and human
perception
will enable you become a better
engineer. So, I was kind of exploring
what would be the uh subject or kind of
the major that I can pursue to have a
better good understanding of both
engineering and and human and brain and
and perception. That was uh that led me
to study computational neuroscience at
MIT.
>> So, computational neuroscience isn't so
much about using computers to understand
people as opposed to understanding as
opposed to understanding neuroscience to
create better software, better
interfaces, better human interaction
with technology. Is that fair?
>> Exactly. Yeah, that's right. Huh. So,
pretty fascinating. Early in your
career, you're at McKinsey for a few
years and then you eventually move into
um SK Telecom. Tell us your focus at at
both places. Yeah, so I mean, I think
after after my PhD, I wanted to um
go into the instead of staying in
academia, I wanted to go into the
business world and uh going to McKinsey
was a kind of a best way to transition
from being a uh being an PhD student to
uh
go into the real world. So, it was a
really
uh, fascinating, uh, experience for me.
Very fast-paced,
able to work with big conglomerates and
the leaders of the businesses and, uh,
in the areas of strategy and corporate
finance, uh, etc.
And, uh, SK was, uh, one of the firm's
clients. And, I don't want to like date
myself, but it was a time that everyone
was rushing into 3G rollout, uh, if you
if you remember.
>> Oh, sure.
It was an interesting transition, just
like we see today, because in 2G,
telecommunication is all about voice
communication. In 3G, what was a
promised was the data transmission,
including videos and like images and,
uh, high-fidelity, uh, audios. If I'm
remembering correctly, it was voice and
text, and then it was image and some
video. And then, eventually, what was
it, 4G or 5G, was full internet?
>> Right, right. Yeah, that's right. So,
uh,
as, uh, telcos are one of the big
capex investors in making that
transition, and, uh, we're thinking
about how we can do the content delivery
in the most, uh,
personal, cuz personalized content
delivery was one of the challenges Mhm.
that requires, uh, artificial
intelligence and like a data, uh,
data-driven, uh, delivery system. So, I
thought that was an interesting
challenge to take on. So, they I I I
moved to SK Telecom to lead that effort.
And then you end up at NCSoft,
um, where you're president and chief
strategy officer.
Um, I'm curious what those experiences
taught you, not just about corporate
governance and, um,
culture, but just these big institutions
that tend to have legacy technology. You
know, there tends to be some group that
really wants to move forward rapidly and
adapt all the latest greatest tech. And
then another group that, hey, this is
expensive. What's the
What's the ROI on this? How how did you
find yourself navigating a big telecom
like SK or a smaller more nimble gaming
company like NCSoft?
Yeah, I mean that's a really great
question. I mean I think I should learn
to um be persistent and resilient and
patient. In both places I was uh
criticized for like
as suggesting something that was not the
norm at the time. So, for example, when
I was in NCSoft, one of the things that
I it was very obvious to me was it was
full of data. In gaming, the businesses
and like all in offered in a digitized
form, you have transaction data, you
have a behavior data of the gamers and
everything. So, it was possible to do a
lot of things uh in a data driven way,
which is very um kind of not Today it's
it's it's a lot of the companies are
doing it, but back then it was uh it was
not very common to have understanding in
both gaming business and as well as um
kind of AI and and kind of data driven
uh business business process modeling.
So, when I suggested things like, oh,
like it's let's do a small thing like
like a churn prediction of cuz you can
you can see the customer player behavior
within the game and see how much they
are engaged and you can predict if that
player is about to churn out or continue
with the with a game and some kind of
interventions could help them stay
engaged with the game. So, that was the
one uh application areas that I I I
didn't identified which could be very
straightforward. But then I was told
like there was a strong pushback from
the developers and then even the
business people. They said, oh, you're
saying it because you don't understand
the gaming business. You're you're
you're saying you're a of you're not a
heavy gamer in a or whatever. I mean so
But but you understand, hey, it costs
this this much to acquire a client or a
gamer. Exactly. And if we see this
behavior, a high percentage of those
folks are tapping out, what can we do to
keep them in and paying monthly fees?
>> right. Exactly. Yeah, so even with a
very clear data and the case presented,
it was not an easy
task to have get everyone's buy-in. But
I think it gradually just keep
The reason I kind of mentioned that
tangible example, it was a small very
tangible area that we can apply to
technology. And once you show the
success, I think there is a gradually
one by one we're able to uh uh uh adopt
integrate that into our business process
to end up having a large AI lab that
does like
all of those things in a in a more
centralized way.
>> So what I'm hearing from you is a very
systems-oriented framework both for
gaming and telecom.
>> Right. Um I know the big mobile
companies in the US are constantly
fighting their own churn rate.
Um so having a top-down systems approach
sounds like you could be really
proactive
in terms of of
maintaining clients.
You would think there's buy-in from
everybody, but it sounds like there's a
little uh
salesmanship involved to get everybody
behind that that approach.
>> Right, yeah. Right, yeah. So so let's
talk a little bit about um
what's going on in the world of AI. I've
heard you discuss
various things that are just short-term
hype. How How do you figure out when
you're evaluating
um an AI system either for an investment
or just to use the technology in a
company, how do you figure out what's
valuable and what's just hype? What What
are you looking at?
I mean I think we talk a lot about hype
cycle and going to bubble being built up
in this
in this kind of AI era, but I think it's
not
unheard of them in every
platform shift, there was overcapacity
built, not just in AI infrastructure,
but it happened with internet like fiber
optics. You remember
>> railroad,
telegram, wherever you go.
>> So like there is always a kind of excess
capacity that's built and I think that's
what people
what people are pointing to is that is
that area that there is some kind of
bubble built up and
but on the other hand, if we talk about
application of the technology, if you
find
the application and real business
problems that you can
apply this technology to solve to be
more efficient or
bring out some insights that like humans
were not able to do it and I think there
is a great area to apply the technology
and I think there are so many of them
out there. So that's why we are so
excited about the development technology
and the prospect of it going forward. So
I've heard you discuss various
priorities, whether it's a corporate
entity pursuing
upgrading
their their AI infrastructure or you
know, a just totally AI native startup.
You talk about durability,
defensibility, real-world impact.
Explain what those three things mean.
In making in in kind of making that
adoption of the technology, there are
there are two ways to think about it.
One is
um
adopting the technology without really
changing the current work process,
right? So you can for example, there are
a lot of talk about co-pilot or like
augmenting what we do, make it faster
like a search. And if those things are
necessarily changing our current
established workflow, but you are fully
embracing what the technology can do to
make you more productive and efficient.
So, that's a kind of one way of applying
it, and I think there will be some some
amount of the ROI that will be realized
from such approaches. And the other is
complete redesign of the workflow. And I
think that's a that's a that's kind of
we are very early stage of like kind of
witnessing that, but I think that will
be a more interesting area to look out
for and could be more tremendous
transformation and value created from
such effort. So, so tell us what you did
at NCSOFT because a lot of of the work
you put in there was about transforming
them to use AI. Was it hey, we're just
going to make all our
developers and gamers and everybody else
a little more efficient, a little more
productive, or did this require a clean
sheet rethink of everything that that
the company was doing? Yeah, I mean I
think it's a was
like 15 years ago, and I think it's back
then I think technology was not ready to
fully redesign the game development work
workflow, but I think back then it was
more of augmenting the existing process.
So, for example, like we did things like
the marketing and turn prediction and
more efficiently. We had NLP that's
designed for a gamer specialized for
gamer language. Like we had a augmenting
animation tool that helps animators to
animate not just by bipedal creatures,
but like four-legged monsters in a way
that's
as efficient as you're doing bipedal
creatures, etc. So, I think it's a more
focused on augmenting existing process
back then, but I think it's technology
has advanced and matured today that I
think that
there are more opportunities to kind of
completely
redesign and come up with a new type of
AI native companies. So, I see like an
AI native entertainment firms, they're
rethinking about what do you mean by new
type of entertainment, new type of
engagement that's different from
polishing and like a making higher
fidelity graphics and games, but like
completely new form of entertainment
using fully embracing the technology
that we have today. So, I keep reading
that Claude is writing its own code and
updating its own code. If you were at
the a gaming shop today, I'm assuming
do you replace coders? Do you have
co-pilot work with coders? There was a
Wall Street Journal article last week. I
think it was Wall Street Journal, it
could have been Wired about coders in
Silicon Valley are just kind of sitting
around watching Claude rewrite their
code. What is going on in the world of
software development now that Claude is
capable of updating itself? Yeah, I
think it's a really fascinating. I think
a lot of the coding is done using
a tools like a Claude and it certainly
makes it more efficient and like
productive, which means that we need a
lot lot less
people in the loop to do the job in
certain areas such as like reviewing a
kind of like detecting errors and just
kind of I think there are certain areas
that AI coders can do better, but there
are other areas that that needs more
kind of heavy hand like more involvement
of like a kind of a
redesigning that the schema and then the
structure and how things are going to
work and how it it kind of is going to
be
uh
implemented and
providing then kind of engaging
experience as for gamers. So, so my bias
is that the humans are very creative and
very innovative. And you know,
I'm thinking in the sort of storylines
we see
on all the streaming shows and some of
the interesting
novel gaming
I don't know what to call it. I guess
it's a narrative storyline.
Is that what people going to focus on
and just the blocking and tackling, just
the daily grind of putting code into
place we're going to let AI use? Is that
a today thing or is that a next, you
know, is that going to change over the
next couple of decades or years?
I think that's a really good question. I
think it's if you look at today, I mean
I think
a lot of the jobs like like YouTubers, a
podcast, these are the type of job that
didn't exist 10 years ago. I don't know
what other jobs are going to be created
in the world where like the things that
needed needed like 100 people attention
can be done with like a fraction of
those people. There could be other type
of job other type of roles, but I think
that's that's a evolution that we'll
have to see how it how it roll out then
then I can I
and kind of predicting exactly what type
of jobs we're going to exist in 10 years
from now. So before we start talking
about AI in in more depth, I just have
to mention your book Push Play, Gaming
for a Better World. I love the concept
that hey, let's not forget about play.
It's really significant in terms of
innovation and
just being an engine of change. Tell us
a little bit about what motivated Push
Play.
Right. I mean I think it's uh
as you just mentioned, I think we have a
tendency of
um
not appreciate appreciating the role of
the play in our everyday life.
My motto is that we don't live to work,
we we live to play. Like we live to
explore. When you have like extra time,
are you going to do like one more line
of work or are you going to play? I
think it's a play is our kind of natural
tendency. Or homo ludens as opposed to
homo sapi- I mean, I think it being in
addition in addition to being a homo
sapiens. So, I think a play is a very
important and I think it's
not not only about like we're not only
talk- talking about computer games, but
in general. I think play has played a
play has played a very significant role
in human evolution.
Uh whenever there is a new artifact that
was introduced in our
uh in our culture, we start with the
playing with it. We create we kind of
figure out how to how to kind of how to
make a
how to
make a play out of it, how to kind of
create something out of it, and when we
have a good understanding of the
material and kind of utility in it, then
you kind of turn that into utility.
Um I think gaming has been playing that
role very
diligently in the over the last couple
of decades.
For example, if you look at some type of
technology that has been when it was
fully uh
tested and and and baked out, gaming has
been always the platform that was brave
enough to incorporate in our
in our offering and have our players
test kind of try out. For example, we
had a VP of AI since the early 2000. We
AI technology has been not
mature enough to kind of apply to
applications like a driverless cars 20
years ago,
but it was okay in gaming because the
gaming is a very low risk environment.
And at the same time, gamers are
inherently early adopters. They want to
try out new technology. So, I think it's
a combination of those things make it
possible and almost inevitable for game
gaming companies to try new
technologies. So, not just the AI, but
like
cybernetics discussions or like
cloud or even like a free-to-play free
premium business models all tried out in
gaming first before they were adopted in
other other businesses. Let me let me
throw you a little bit of a curveball
about gaming. So, when I was growing up,
play was totally unstructured. You go
down to the school yard, the computer
games like Pong and Space Invaders, very
rudimentary. Now it seems kids
their lives are much more scheduled,
their play is more structured. How does
that affect
the sort of experience you want to
provide from a gaming company?
That's a very good question and then I
think it's a
There are many aspects to your question.
One is about what is a gaming for today
and I think the reason why
there's so much opportunity to play game
and kind of as a novelty is because
computer happens to be the most
sophisticated and advanced device that
we have today. I think we're still
trying to figure out what is kind of its
limitations and what it can do and it
and kind of
in all with the kind of experience they
can it can provide. So, I think there
are a lot of online digital games out
there and
the
the kind of the size of the catalog
makes kids and who are are trying to go
through what kind of play options are
there end up choosing a game or two from
from that
>> So, they they can see they can select
what they want to do with the
>> but but there are but but That's like if
you think of a game game is not just a
one thing. There are like sandbox games,
there are like a building game, there
are a lot of
like a quiz games, the story-based
games. There are
different type of games that you can
choose from. So, depending on your
preference and what you find the most
engagement, you you can choose different
games.
So, let's let's stay with kids with
children and and in particular students.
There's been a lot of concern about the
impact of AI on education, on learning,
on training uh people to to get jobs in
the real world. There's a quote of yours
I I was kind of intrigued with. Rather
than competing with AI, students should
be prepared to leverage uniquely human
capabilities. Explain what that means in
terms of the real world.
I think it's a If you think about
education, our education uh has been
over the last
couple of a hundred years, it has been
optimized for delivering knowledge.
And I think we are witnessing that the
the knowledge delivery and memorization
is rapidly being commoditized.
>> Mhm. And
is that what students have to spend all
their time sitting in a classroom to
to kind of to to kind of a polish? I I I
think it's a what we what our next
generation needs is more of the
creativity and the problem-solving
skills. And I have to we we have to
think about if we can redesign the
classroom to really enhance those skills
instead of uh
uh helping them uh acquire what more
knowledge. So, there's a very different
set of targets, acquiring skills or just
learning things or memorizing things. Um
I'm I'm a big fan of teaching children
how to problem solve. Right. When you
say skills, let let's think of that from
an institutional level. How should
schools be using
AI to teach children new skills,
developing an expertise, developing
problem solving, what's the proper role
of AI for educational institutions?
I mean, I think what what I what I would
like to say is that
we have to educate and prepare our
students to thrive in the world where AI
is more it's going to be more prevalent.
AI is not but but the solution to that
is not just AI.
It's many different
kind of it could be
re- redesigning the curriculum, it could
be redesigning the kind of school
system, the kind of thinking about how
we evaluate their achievement, and how
we retrain our teachers.
AI could be a tool for doing that, but
it's not the solution for everything.
So, I think there is a huge difference
there.
All right, so let's bring this now out
to the world of the economy and and
business.
The
probably the the biggest narrative I've
been following about AI
outside of it's a bubble or we're all
going to lose our jobs, and I kind of
ignore both of those extremes is that
successful companies have wide moats,
and we're starting to see AI compress
those moats over time. Think about
industries like lawyers, tax preparers,
accountants, there's a lot of stuff AI
can do in a fraction of the time and
with a greater accuracy level. Everybody
knows about reading X-rays and MRIs.
Um
so so if we know our moats are going to
get compressed, how should companies be
using AI either to protect and expand
those moats, or somehow use AI to expand
their competitive advantages while they
last?
I mean, I
I think that's a that's a very
interesting because uh
I think there are some some of the
industries and profession that will be
um they'll become much more productive
and probably need lot less profession to
solve certain well-defined problems.
But that doesn't mean that human as
humanity as a society
it it's not it's left with no problem to
solve. I think we have like so many
other problems to solve that AI can not
address. For example, how we're I mean,
I think there are like very old
problem of
um like
the
uh
politics is how we are going to uh
redistribute the resources. What is our
societal priority in solving uh in
enhancing the agency of everyone and
kind of helping them to achieve their
full potential. I think those are the
things that we don't have a good
solution for while AI it can uh take
care of some of the things of
well-defined work force, providing
that's expertise to make it more
efficient way, we'll have time to work
on other problems to
progress humanity forward. And I think
that's uh we have to be prepared to
accept new type of roles and new type of
a kind of the a profession that will
exist in in the enabled by this uh
technology advancement. So, I I think
we're all in agreement it's going to be
a very disruptive technology.
Uh
am I hearing you say essentially hey,
it's up to everybody to learn how to use
these tools and adapt, but the change is
coming, you have to be prepared. Yes,
right, exactly. Yeah. So, so you've
operated at the intersection of
artificial intelligence, gaming,
telecommunication, and social platforms.
That's a great conversion of a lot of
different technologies. Um how is that
evolving and
how are both consumers and institutions
uh really adapting to that sort of
AI-driven economy?
I mean, I think it's a lot of people
recognize that this is a one of the
greatest platform shift in our in our
lifetime and there's a lot of excitement
uh and uh
But as as many people say, I mean, the
camp of uh seeing it as a kind of we are
at the very early inning of
how it kind of how it's going to fully
pan out. We don't even know what's going
to what is coming in uh in uh
the next
3 to 5 years and uh I'm really excited
to see all this kind of uh the use case
and application of technology
fully using based on the creativity of
the this AI-native generation. And I
think the people who think with AI as
part of their tool and uh at their
fingertip will come up with the
different ideas and and and kind of uh
like their creativity and I think that
that's what I'm really excited about.
So, you've founded Chameleon as a
corporate venture arm and and now you
run a fully independent early-stage
venture funds. I'm curious, what are the
differences between being part of a
corporate venture fund or an
independent? Um what are the strengths
and blind spots that you end up with in
in each?
Um
I think we work with the uh strategic uh
investors LP, then I think it's a there
is a certain um
I I think the objective is a different
depend I mean, like what kind of as a as
a GP, we work for our LPs and the kind
of who is providing the capital and like
what is the objective of the fund and I
think it's th- those are very different.
So, the at the PVP, I think we focus
more on um
on type of investors would like to uh be
at the forefront of the innovation and
then capture the value being created. Uh
we I mean
regardless of the kind of the area. It
doesn't have to be confined in like
entertainment and consumer space. Then
we we we were we were able to kind of
look more more broadly. So corporate is
pure strategic and independent is
strictly ROI. So let's talk about some
of the companies you've backed.
together.ai,
Cartesia, Sesame. These all seem to be
pretty core infrastructure uh plays.
Tell us a little bit about those.
What was it about each of those that
made them so appealing?
I mean I think it's a it's it's a really
uh
tricky time to make an investment cuz I
mean as we say it, I think there is a
lot of like kind of excitement uh about
this technology. There is a kind of the
rushing mentality. So I tried to invest
in companies uh that that's going to be
durable in the coming decades. So I
really like a companies that are
building um infrastructure technology
that's that has multi-purpose uh as as
this platform and technology evolves. So
I think uh together and Cartesia and
together and Cartesia are both of them
have a great founders, have have a have
a vision of building infrastructure and
a foundational technology that's going
to be used uh in many different AI
platform companies that are going to
going to be building. And I think Sesame
was interesting case because it's it's
building um the voice applications that
I know from my gaming experience is kind
of importance of it and importance of uh
focusing on certain features that that
will uh provide certain experiences uh
to to the users. And I think uh the
founders got what was important and I
think they are kind uh they are um
capabilities and talent was
uh
singularly focused on um making that
technology push. So I really like uh
what they were doing and that's one of
the reasons uh one of the reasons I
ended up investing in Sesame uh as a
company. But, I think there are other
type of companies as well that we're
excited about um in this uh very uh in
this kind of the like standing on this
kind of shifting grounds uh
and I think those are the companies who
are
in a position of building this data
flywheel because one of the um
non-deniable characteristics of the the
companies that they will be durable in
this environment are the the ones who
have a proper access to data, uh the
data understanding of customers and
consumers and the business, and build a
technology unique technology on top of
that. So, we also are investing
companies that are building this data
flywheel that's uh
over time building very defensible moat.
Hm. Really really interesting. What is
the key problem Principal Venture
Partners is trying to solve in the world
of AI today? So, uh we started to back
AI-native companies. And I think when we
started uh when we first talked about
AI-native companies, that was not a very
common phrase. People asked me like,
"What do you mean by AI-native
companies?" And um I had to explain what
it meant. And um
I think it's these days I think it's a
it's more widely used term. And uh we
would like to build uh we'd like to uh
back companies who are fully embracing
the technology of today and tomorrow,
led by founders who understand the
technology and limitations of it and
able to come up with work design that
reflect the importance of this. So, I
think that in terms of the size of the
department, I think it it will be very
different from um companies built upon
last generation technology tech stack.
And I I a type of leaders and talents
who are going to lead all these
departments are going to be different in
terms of the use of technology and their
vision. And solving the problems that
are relevant in the AI native era are
the companies that are really excite us.
And then those are the companies that we
are focused on investing in. So every
time there's a new technology
um
everybody just kind of sprinkles a
little bit on it to catch the little bit
of the buzz. We had it with the dot
coms, we had it with the metaverse, we
had it with crypto. And now everybody's
claiming they're an AI company or at
least a lot of companies. How How do you
distinguish between what is truly AI
native and what is just let's put a
little dash of AI salt on this?
That's a good that's a very good
question. I think I have unfair
advantage by like working in a gaming
company. And I think gaming company
actually gave me
an experience in gaming industry is like
having a lens into the future. Right?
Because
a lot of the technology and innovation
happens in gaming first and it gives us
kind of sense of like is this type of
technology
adoptable
and will the consumers accept this type
of application? So like in terms of
application and platform, I think that
that's a that's really a
interesting guiding North Star for me.
And then in in addition to that, I think
that companies that are fully AI native
are built around that tech stack.
Whereas if you are trying to sprinkling
AI, I think you you kind of ask question
like can you do the same thing without
AI? Like why do you need it? Why is it
indispensable? I think there are there
are kind of uh
the businesses and business operations
that they're using like for example like
agent technology. But like a lot of the
applications and you don't need agent,
you just need some kind of good good
data analytics.
So so I think it's a there are many ways
that we we try to understand how a
business are operating and see their
kind of full potential and like and
their strategy. So so on the one hand, I
know AI has been around a long time.
There was, you know, when Deep Blue beat
Kasparov, that was a big deal. And then
I forgot what the name of the AI
um app that ended up winning Jeopardy.
These are like 10 and 20 years ago. So
it's not a brand new technology.
However, it feels like we took another
level jump um with ChatGPT and and go
down the list, Claude,
um notebook, uh Perplexity, whatever.
How do you think about this moment in
time? Is this similar to early
broadband, early smartphones, early
cloud use? Like for someone who's a tech
investor, they want to know, "Hey, is it
early? Is it late? Is it so early that
nine out of 10 of the startups we're
going to see are going to go belly up?"
Like how do you think about this moment
where we are today?
That's that's great. Uh actually, it's
it's older than that. Do you remember
like
in '60s, there was a
application called Eliza? Uh-huh. That
sounds very familiar.
>> Right. So
>> Telephone or Eliza was was it like was
it a kind of um
very early incarnation of chatbot. Mhm.
And I think there was even a newspaper
headline
at the end of psychotherapist Uh-huh.
because it was doing so well in terms of
like
rephrasing what we are asking and kind
of giving them comfort when you are
asking about very personal questions.
And they said, "Oh, we don't need a
psychotherapist anymore cuz it's doing
good enough." And I think since then
there was a lot of kind of AI
winters and summers, ups and downs, and
I think there's a lot of hype.
In terms of like comparing where we are
in terms of the
the kind of
platform shift, and I think we are I
think we're
What's surprising to many people about
this time and moment is that
the
the AI shift is closer to the
introduction of the railroad than the
introduction of the the PC or internet.
Huh. Cuz the
biggest breakthrough that that allowed
us to come here was actually the scale.
So, it's not just a new It's not new
algorithm. It's not new software, kind
of new way of doing things, but it was a
scale. Let's do it like kind of pouring
a lot of resources to make it really
big.
And that's that that's where we saw the
tremendous jump in jump in terms of the
capability of AI. So,
with that, I think it kind of
rolling out that
that as an infrastructure
has been the focus of the last
2 3 years, and and on on this exciting
new railroad that's built out, I think
there will be interesting new businesses
that will emerge out of it. So, yes, I
think we are very early in terms of kind
of fully
appreciating what's possible on top of
this. Um So, I I love the idea of
interesting new businesses, and I'm
always fascinated with what do the
public markets
know? You know, it's they're more or
less kind of eventually efficient. And
very often though, when a new technology
comes along, they very much
underestimate
where it can go. So, what's a sort of
use case
that the public markets might be
underestimating. Where might this go?
You look at dozens and dozens of new
companies.
What what direction is just mind-blowing
that nobody is really anticipating?
So there are
I think it's a there are a lot of things
happening. One is that
one one interesting thing about this
technology is that while it has been um
kind of it
it beat many people's expectations about
what it can do.
However, I think there is a lot more
innovation is coming
along because in terms of this
architecture design and fundamental
design of the the framework, there is a
lot more innovation coming along. Mhm.
So we are not done with what is the most
efficient railroad design. I think there
could be
other type of railroad that can come
along online that will allow faster and
more
kind of more comfortable ride
experience.
And once there is a railroad, I think
there is an interesting
business that emerged. Like for example,
like mail order. Or like it people it
it's really hard to make a connection,
but that type of new businesses was
made possible because railroad was in
place. Right.
>> But when I don't think I don't think it
was a kind of first thing that came in
mind for kind of rolling out the
railroad as as a kind of
across different states.
>> Well well broadband and fiber optic led
to so many diff everything from YouTube
to really the build out of Amazon Web
Services and all the online retail,
right?
>> games, right? Exactly. That I think so
like so that's why I'm really excited
about AI native generations and
creativity, what they're going to build
on top of this. So I think there will be
new type of businesses that we don't
We don't today that will be enabled by
this infrastructure. So, when you're
sitting with a founder of a company
that's looking for financing, what sort
of questions do you ask? What are you
trying to figure out about their model,
about their direction, about their team?
I It's so
so unique and cutting edge. Like I
wouldn't even know where to begin.
Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, I think that there are It
depends depending on what they're
building. I think it's a
The set of questions that I ask when
they're building more of the
infrastructure technology versus kind of
business applications are different.
Uh but especially when they're
building
business applications or vertical
applications, I always try to ask what
is the real value that they're that that
is going to bring
to to the end users. In not We are not
investing in companies that are building
amazing kind of tech demonstrations and
and the features. We're trying to find
companies who are build a kind of
solving real business real world
business problems and do it in a way
that's sustainable and more efficient
than and using other type of technology.
So, well you're looking at
infrastructure type companies, what
other type of AI applications are you
looking at? We are We are looking at the
companies that they're building vertical
applications
by developing data kind of flywheel and
data mode.
Um so So, there's been a little bit of a
lightning rod from a regulatory
standpoint. There's you know, all the
LLMs have copyright complaints and
issues.
Um you sit in a really interesting
intersection. When when you look at a a
TermSheet today, how do you think about
the regulatory risks, the litigation
risks? I mean, that When LLMs first came
out, I didn't for a moment think, "Oh,
no, all that was stolen content in there
that that they were uh crawling over and
using as their training tools." How How
do you think about regulatory framework
and geopolitics? It seems like there's a
lot of novel moving parts. Yeah, I think
that's a really great question. And I
think that uh more than ever
understanding how the like regulatory
body things and the policy is going to
going to evolve over time
is uh important at making these
decisions, especially in in the venture
space. We are making
a bet. We're making investment uh that
should
last
over a decade, right? So, um
I think it it comes from the the kind of
the belief and understanding that um
the innovation and and uh the research
is really kind of uh
the
is very precious for for all of us uh as
a humanity.
And um
the kind of the
this the kind of peer-reviewed the the
kind of the tradition of the peer review
and um
the open forum has um has really uh
propelled us to where we are today and
it it's going to continue.
And I think uh the collaboration and
openness will better serve our end
customers for uh
So, the transparency is important. And I
think it with all of those beliefs, I
mean, I think it we don't have we don't
have the crystal ball to say like what's
going to what the policy framework is
going to be like, what is the kind of
geopolitical tangent it's going to be
like in the next one or two years, but
we have the belief that human um kind of
um our collective work will converge in
a direction that serves our humanity in
a positive direction. And I think that's
uh that's kind of where I do like to uh
to see that that's the ultimately that's
going to what's going to be implemented
and and incorporated and under under
that type of uh
uh the world whether these companies and
and founders can
test the pressure test to to sustain and
I think that's how I see and when I
evaluate the companies how always going
to sustain those kind of policy changes.
Mhm.
All right, so before we get to our speed
round, let me ask you one last question,
which is what do you think in investors
in the AI space are either not thinking
about or not talking about but is
important and perhaps they really should
be paying attention to.
Uh
I I think that the the saying that says
we are very at the very early aiming
means a lot. I I hear someone even
saying that we are still in the car
getting to the stadium. Like it's still
we're not even in the first inning.
Right.
That means all this kind of the the
models models and structures
can change significantly, can evolve
over time and
nothing cannot be seen as uh
kind of engraved in a stone.
So, with that I think that a lot of the
investment decisions uh
has to
be reflecting the fact that there are it
it kind of has to remain like a nimble
and flexible because
we should be able to adjust to when
those changes and and new breakthroughs
come around. Mhm. All right, so I only
have you for a few minutes. So, we'll
click through these really quickly, our
speed round. Starting with who your
early mentors who helped to shape your
career.
I would say I mean I think I I was
fortunate enough to have a lot of
mentors
um
when I was a student but of a
one person that stand out is Dominic
Barton who used who used was the global
managing partner at McKinsey. When I
first started out as an associate at
McKinsey, he had a his office was right
next to mine. So, he was literally my
mentor and I think I I learned a lot
from him as a as a leader and
and and as a as a mentor and
and I think it's
still today I reach out to him if I have
to make a tough decisions and I think he
has been always very generous with his
time. So, I am really appreciate. Let's
talk about books. What are some of your
favorites? What are you reading right
now? Oh, so I read a lot of books
but I think I I kind of read many book
I'm
of the type that I read many books that
kind of simultaneously. I read like one
chapter here and then I go to jump to
another book.
But the book that I recommend to
everyone these days is are two book. One
is the the Empire of AI
and the other is Power and Progress and
I think that those books kind of help us
understand the dynamics of what's
happening and what we need to think
about as as a society.
So, let's talk about streaming. What are
you either listening to or watching
these days?
So,
um
I I mean I listen to I listen to music
through like Spotify a lot.
Um my son is a big fan of Taylor Swift.
Uh-huh.
I have to listen to Taylor Swift like
like when I'm in a car like driving
a lot. Um also I watch K-drama on
Netflix. Uh-huh. Really really
interesting. Our final two questions,
what sort of advice would you give to a
recent college graduate interested in a
career in either artificial intelligence
investing or gaming?
I mean I think it
kids uh uh
just graduating today uh I mean, I think
it's a
the one thing that's not going to change
is it's going to be very bumpy and it's
going to be like this disruptive and uh
the world that they're going to be uh
working in is not going to look like the
world today. Like that's that's the
constant, right? And um
I mean, I think what I would like to
remind them is like don't try to find
the kind of follow the the um
the trend. Really have to stick to what
you're I mean, it it sounds like a
cliche, but like what you're passionate
about. I mean, you remember in '70s, the
most popular major to go in was What was
that? Was that kind of material science
and then the chemical engineering and
then like electric engineering and
computers
like just to see that those those uh the
popularity of those uh major kind of
plummeting. Like we have witnessed it
like so many of those cases. So, it it
it doesn't really uh it it I think I
don't think it serves well to find what
try to kind of follow that that kind of
fashion or trend. We really have to
>> a generalist and be flexible.
Could be, yeah, right, yeah.
>> All right. And our final question, what
do you know about the world of venture
investing and artificial intelligence
today might have been useful to know 20
years ago?
I mean, I think the uh patience. So,
that we think it's also the power of
compounding is not just in finance, but
also in like uh human capital and our
understanding technology and um and also
the relations, too. Like it it seems
very slow uh today, but like if it
you're persistent and for 20 years, I
think that uh what you can achieve is
really tremendous. Well, thank you,
Sung-Hyun, for being so generous with
your time. We have been speaking with
Sang Yi Yoon,
uh, founder and managing partner at
Principal Venture Partners. If you
enjoyed this conversation, well, check
out any of the 600-plus
interviews we've done over the past 12
years. You can find those at iTunes
podcast, Spotify, YouTube, Bloomberg,
wherever you find your favorite
podcasts. I would be remiss if I didn't
thank the crack team that helps us put
these conversations together. Each week,
Alexis Noriega is my video producer.
Anna Lu is my podcast producer. Sean
Russo is my head of research. I'm Barry
Ritholtz. You've been listening to
Masters in Business
on Bloomberg Radio.